(mystical orchestral music)
The fact that hundreds and hundreds of people
have gone in to National Parks and Forests,
tried to enjoy our public lands
and disappeared or were killed?
It's something that the public needs to know about.
This is, this is too much now,
this is too much to be coincidence.
We're talkin' about cold, hard evidence.
He called me and said
"They're not telling you everything.
"One of these days I hope you find out the truth."
Just find me a bone.
Just find me something for actual proof.
I think I made a mistake just by answering when I did.
(mystical music final)
(moves into chaotic music overture)
Many people today,
don't know what to believe anymore.
People are basically gonna keep on to
help uncover what really happened.
It felt like something was watching me.
We weren't given all the information.
We weren't told the entire story.
(mystical music finale)
Welcome to Beyond Belief, I'm George Noory.
You know, I've had a broadcast career
that has spanned 46 years,
probably longer than some of you are even aged.
And I've come across a lot of stories in my life,
many stories indeed.
I was one of the last reporters
to chat with and interview Jimmy Hoffa
before he disappeared.
Well, what we're going to talk with you about
on this portion of Beyond Belief is disappearance,
but in a different kind of way.
David Paulides is our special guest,
he's an author, researcher.
His book, Missing 411, is an incredible read
of people that have disappeared from parks,
Federal Parks, State Parks and certain other spots,
with an amazing story, David.
Absolutely riveting.
But welcome to Beyond Belief.
Thanks for havin' me, George.
When you got into this,
there must of been one or two case studies
that first cropped up that got you to say
hey, there's somethin' weird here, I'm gonna study this.
How'd that happen for you?
Well originally we got a,
I got a notification from a National Park Ranger
that he had worked at a series of National Parks
and they had an unusual amount of disappearances
and the people had disappeared in unusual places,
that really didn't make a lot of sense to this person.
And over the years they tried to do a little research
and figure out what happened,
and they got stymied.
And the more they looked into it,
into their internal system,
he got concerned that there wasn't enough being done.
And eventually ended up contacting me
when I was at a park doing some peripheral research,
and we started to look into disappearances
in the US National Park system.
Probably the first case that brought my interest
was a case of Stacy Arras that disappeared in Yosemite.
A 14 year-old girl that was on a pack train ride
into Sunrise Lakes, into the High Sierra area of Yosemite.
Her and her dad stopped at a series of cabins,
she got off her horse, freshened up.
And her and a 70 year-old man named Stuart,
went and took a short walk off to this bluff,
and she brought her camera and they were gonna
just take pictures.
The trail hand saw them walk over there
and she walked away from Stuart and told Stuart
she was gonna walk down to a lake
to take some pictures.
And the trail hand and Stuart saw her walk down there,
and that was the last time she was ever seen.
Subsequent search found the lens cap to her camera
right inside the treeline of that area,
but the reality is, is they never found
a trace of her after that.
I filed a series of Freedom of Information Act requests
against the Park Service to get documents,
and I have received documents before
from the Park Service on other missing persons cases.
I got a call from their attorney asking me
why I wanted the case.
And then they asked me what I was gonna do with it.
And finally a Special Agent from the Park Service,
a guy named Yu, told me I would never get that case.
He didn't explain why,
but he said "You're never gonna get it."
Why do you think it was so secretive?
Well, it doesn't make a lot of sense
because the Park Service is a big bureaucracy
and I'm sure that they have policies and procedures,
and depending on which park you call on,
or you make the request through,
you'll get reports on missing people.
And a missing person's case isn't a criminal case,
it's a missing person.
And most agencies want publicity
about missing people.
It appears that the Park Service
doesn't want publicity about their missing people.
Scare people from going to the parks, right?
I think it might.
And in this one instance, the Park failed to comply
and said that I would never get this case
and to this date I don't have that case.
That's bizarre.
Strictly bizarre.
And there's no way that you can squeeze it out of somebody?
You know, I've talked to family members of Stacy's,
her mom and her dad have died,
they are equally concerned.
They've read my books, they've read the stories
and they said that their dad had compiled
a massive amount of documents.
And he was concerned, and an uncle of their's called me
and said the same thing,
and said it just didn't make sense.
There were a lot of rumors that
A, she may have walked out of the park,
all of this was not true.
She completely disappeared.
Was the 70 year-old, the old guy,
was he a suspect for a while?
No, because the trail hand just happened
to see her walk away from him at the time
from this rock outcropping they were sitting on.
So, I think he was cleared form the beginning.
And they had found her tracks going into this lake area,
inside this tree area, where they found the lens cap.
So, I think he was absolved and
when I talked to Agent Yu on the phone
I asked him were there any suspects,
is this continuing to be investigated?
He told me that no one's touched the case for years,
there are no suspects and there's no way
that it's gonna get turned into a criminal case
as far as he knew.
Are these case, David, all around the country
or primarily in North America?
Originally we focused on just the United States.
And slowly, as the word got out what we were doing,
we started to get contacted from people
from around the world.
And initially it came out of Canada
that there were these additional cases.
And then the Canadian National Park system
seems to fall into the same category
as the US National Park system
as far as the number of disappearances.
To date in North America we've established
52 clusters of missing people
in National Parks and National Forests
throughout North America.
The biggest cluster in the world of missing people,
Yosemite National Park.
Are these disappearances also happening in cities
where you don't have parks?
So, to this point we established a profile that
that is based upon hundreds and hundreds
and hundreds of disappearances,
and thousands of reports that we've read
about missing people.
So this profiling,
it's a specific point we're looking for.
Namely canines that are brought in can't find a scent.
They disappear and there's nothing heard,
there's nothing seen, there's no abduction scenario.
Footprints, nothing?
Nothing.
The people a lotta times
are walking with friends or parents
and they're either first in line or they're last in line
when they disappear.
And those people don't hear or see anything either.
You turn around and they're gone.
Exactly.
One of the specific scenarios that we get asked
is that well, maybe it's an animal attack.
So, in the search and rescue reports
they bring in trackers, they bring professional people in,
and each one of those cases,
it's completely absolved that there isn't an animal attack.
Because in an animal attack there's gonna be blood,
there's gonna be hair, there's gonna be a scene--
There's gonna be noise!
You're gonna hear, animals don't attack
and they're not quiet!
No sir.
And there's gonna be drag marks
where the body would get dragged somewhere.
Precisely.
This has never been seen.
Not in the cases that we'll work.
It's true, people are attacked by animals,
I don't doubt that and I know for a fact that that's true.
In these cases, we won't work a case
where there's an animal attack.
I know chatting with you on our radio show,
Coast to Coast AM, David,
that you don't like to speculate
on a specific reason or cause.
But we're gonna throw out some possibilities
and let our viewers, of course,
make up their own minds about something like this.
But let me ask you,
would you consider these disappearances
to be natural,
or highly unusual?
Sounds like I'm trying to trap you here. (laughs)
I'll do one better, extremely unusual.
Extremely unusual.
They don't fit the normal disappearance scenario.
When you talk to,
in 2012 I made a presentation in front of the
National Association of Search and Rescue Professionals,
and nobody left the room for the entire time I talked.
They were stunned at some of the things--
I get emails when you're on Coast to Coast,
and I have had thousands of guests,
when you're on the program,
my emails start going up, up, up,
and then afterward, the next day,
it's clogged with people petrified, confused,
desperate for more information.
It's one of the strangest stories I've ever heard, David.
Well, and I think when you get into
the minutia of the data, it gets even stranger.
Because the same scenario
of missing person to missing person
plays out over and over and over again.
You'll read in the paper sometimes
about small children that disappear,
and they're found thousands of feet
above where they disappeared.
And search and rescue people won't say it publicly,
but privately they'll say
"There's no way that kid got there on his own."
Alive or dead?
90% of the time somebody that young, they're deceased.
They are?
Yes.
But those search and rescue people privately,
they know that no two year-old can walk up a mountainside.
There's no way.
Now, of the people that are found alive,
the small number, are they in shock?
Do they talk about, you know, I wandered away
and I got lost, what do they say?
So, part of that profiling is understanding
the personality of the person
or the background of the person who disappeared.
And many, many times, the people that disappear
have some type of disability.
Whether it's autism, dementia,
inability to speak...
An astronomical percentage?
Yes.
Very strange.
It is very strange.
And when those people are found,
and they are found at a higher percentage
than the people that can speak,
those people obviously can't tell a story.
There have been instances where
people have disappeared and they are found.
And most recently, a couple years ago,
a woman disappeared,
I believe it was in Arkansas,
and she was eventually found and she said
for three days I knew that there were people
behind bushes that were watching me the entire time.
And they didn't help me,
and I walked up to 'em sometimes
and tried to talk to 'em,
but they wouldn't talk to me.
And she said it was, she was very scared.
And they interviewed a doctor about it and he said,
"No, she wasn't makin' this up,
"She believes that that happened."
What kinda people were they?
That's a great question, I don't know.
I know deep down inside,
you've got some speculation here.
Is it difficult for you not to just say, I think it's this?
You know George, I can't,
I can't describe that I'm an expert
in all of these different fields
that people have come at me with.
And there's probably been eight different hypotheses
and almost thesis-length form,
that people have written to me about,
explaining why they believe that it--
That it was this thing, yeah.
Exactly.
And they come at it with emotion and interest.
I can't say no to any of 'em.
And if you want me to go through the list, glad to.
Yeah, let's do that.
What we're talking about here folks, again,
missing people primarily in forests and parks,
State or Federal, that are simply gone.
In your guess, how many people are we talking about
since this phenomena has come under your wrap?
So, we've identified 1600 cases.
1600 people?
But you gotta remember that the
National Parks and the US National Forest Service
isn't helping us or assisting us,
because they won't tell us--
So, you're sayin' 1600 reported cases.
That we know of.
Okay, let's go through the scenarios
of the possibilities what could be happening.
From the logical to the illogical.
So, start at the most mundane,
people have stated that
well, there must be a group of
American soldiers out there
that are kidnapping these people
and our government's doing tests on 'em.
I've heard that 50 times in the last five years.
That scenario to me doesn't make a lotta sense
because canines would be able to track that.
Right, people would hear it.
Somebody would see it.
Eventually, yeah for sure.
Something I really know nothing about is
people say that there's reptilians out there,
and that reptilians are in the woods
taking these people and feeding off 'em.
Extraterrestrials.
Or ultraterrestrials and they're here living in,
some people have stated that they live underground,
I don't know.
Obviously, there's the alien connection
that I've heard 10,000 times.
Do people see craft around some of these scenes?
That's never been reported.
Okay.
But one thing that people do say is that,
in conjunction with these disappearances,
immediately after or right after,
part of that profile is that there's bad weather
associated with this.
Meaning, in many of these cases,
sometimes it rains inches and inches
or snows feet and feet in days right afterwards.
Kinda wipes out the scene, doesn't it?
It does.
And so, aliens, alien abduction,
that's a really common one.
Another one that I've heard a lot from Europe
and Iceland, is fairies.
Fairies.
Fairies and little people.
Uh huh.
And I've actually written about that in some of my books
because the folklore mythology that surrounds it
talks about them abducting people.
Yes, that's right.
Ancient folklore.
Yes.
Yeah.
And then another one is that there's gods
and the gods at times
take people for their own will.
And part of that taking of them is that
if they don't fit the eventual needs of those Gods
they're replaced back on earth
and those are the ones we find deceased.
I've heard that probably 200 times.
The other one that
a lot of people may think is true
is that there's a group
of serial killers out there in the woods.
To me that is the least likely of every scenario,
not that I'm categorizing anything but
the reason being is that in these searches
they bring in professional trackers.
Part of that professional tracking ability is
tracking somebody through the woods.
And some of the people they use
are Navajo trackers, military trackers,
professional private trackers in conjunction with canines.
And nothing!
Nothing.
They don't find tracks leaving the scene,
they don't find a scent.
Some idea, or the idea that people promote
that it's a serial killer in the woods,
there's a lot of things that go with that,
And mainly, if there was a serial killer in the woods,
then they'd have to carry that body for miles.
When they track, do they get to a certain point
and it just ends?
Sometimes it ends immediately
and sometimes they do get to that point
and the scent just stops.
A lot of times some of the best canine trackers in the world
have said that they'll bring the dog to the scene
and the dog will walk in a circle,
lay down and doesn't wanna track.
He's scared?
Well, the description from some of the searchers
is that they can't tell if the dog is uninterested
or there is no search.
What about Big Foot?
That's another scenario that's been brought up
hundreds and hundreds of times and I would say that
the issue with that one is the same with the others
in that there's no tracks.
And if you were gonna carry somebody,
drag somebody,
I think you would hear something on the front end--
You would think.
Of something unusual.
What about a portal, another dimension?
Some kind of, God knows what, that is going on
in this planet, this universe, and that these people
just accidentally walk right through it
and they're gone and they can't get back.
Well, in all of the scenarios,
in what's been explained to me
by other experts that have been on your show,
to me that one, if it exists,
would be the one that fit every scenario
that we've explained in the book.
Not that I'm saying that is it,
I'm just saying that the scenario the experts lay out
seems to be the one that fits the most criteria.
As an example, there was a hunter in Colorado
that contacted me a couple years ago.
And he was hunting for elk at about
10 or 11,000 feet up in Northern Colorado.
And he said he was walking on a plain
where the grass was maybe four feet high,
three or four feet,
and he heard something coming towards him
and he couldn't really identify it.
And he kept walking, he got on a trail
and he kept hearing a loud hum.
And he started to slow down on the trail,
and he said in front of him it became real blurry.
Whoa!
So, he slowed down even more.
Like an opening.
Something, he said it was almost like
you were looking through glasses that weren't yours
and it was just strange looking.
And he said he almost walked up to it,
and it looked like a plate of glass
and he stuck his foot through
and part of his foot disappeared.
And he said, I brought my foot back
and I turned around and I ran.
That's the first time I've heard that.
But I suppose, what would happen to ya
if you had your head down
and you weren't payin' attention?
I don't know.
That's a good point.
You're working on a documentary, tell me about it.
So, several years ago we got a series of inquiries
from different groups about doing a documentary and
one of the things that I would have to give up
was editorial control and accuracy of the documentary.
They would've wanted to dramatize it,
one thing I didn't wanna do.
I was able to put together a team,
an award-winning team of journalists,
film makers, videographers.
And I've worked with them now for the last six months
in getting to the point we are today.
And we put together the trailer.
We've been to National Parks.
We've interviewed victim's families.
And we've interviewed former National Park Rangers,
and current National Park Rangers.
And I can tell you I have learned so much
riveting information about the Park Service
and from the victims about how they're treated.
And I think that part of this story is the victim's story,
their grief, how quickly they've disappeared.
How once that seven to 10 day period of search, George,
is over, that's it.
Nobody wants to talk about it.
Nobody wants to post the disappearance.
Nobody wants to explain the circumstances.
It's over.
It is over.
So, we started a Kickstarter campaign,
we're tryin' to raise the needed money
and we really need everybody's help to make that happen.
Kickstarter has helped a lot of people I know
raise money for films and projects like that.
First of all, if people wanna watch the trailer,
where do they find it?
Kickstarter.com.
Missing 411, you go to our website
canammissing.com, it's on there.
In a lot of these cases,
you find strange cases
where the clothes,
it's just laid out but it's not attacked,
it's not ripped, it's not torn.
It's almost as if somebody would take it off,
lie it down and they're still gone, right?
It's just not the clothes, it's also shoes.
I have several cases where searchers found
the people's clothes neatly folded.
One time they were neatly folded in the middle of a river.
Now one of the constants is
is that many of these people are found
either in, next to, or adjoining a dry creek bed,
boulder field, lake, reservoir.
And many times they're found deceased without clothes,
without shoes, without--
No marks on their body.
Other than the one that killed 'em,
maybe a head injury and that's it.
So there are some injuries to some?
Oh yeah, in the deceased ones, yes.
What percent, David, would you think
could be just a natural cause?
Somebody wandered off, got lost,
fell, hit their head, something like that?
Small percent?
Honestly, I think we vetted that completely.
There is no need for me to put fluff in the books
because there's just too many stories out there.
I mean, before we did this interview
I was talkin' to you about a series of stories
that have happened just in the last six months.
And in my books I've written in the last two years,
that there seems to be some type of acceleration
in the type of these cases that match
the profile we established.
This is scary stuff.
As you were doing your research,
did anything shock you?
One of the things in the last two years that we found
that to me is very shocking,
is the number of high intellectual types
that have disappeared in just the last two years.
Unexplained, never found.
One off the top of my head,
Alyof Krost, K-R-O-S-T,
he disappeared in the mountains above Los Angeles.
He was at Lake Arrowhead
attending a conference of physicists.
And they had an outing one afternoon,
where they went to take a hike.
And during that hike, Alyof didn't feel real good.
And he and another of the escorts both didn't feel good,
so they sat down and the rest of the group took off.
And again, it's that last in line, first in line scenario.
So, the group leaves.
And if anyone's ever been to Lake Arrowhead,
this is extremely rural, there's a lot out there.
But there's a trail, lotta boulders.
The group eventually made it back to the conference center,
he never made it back.
And there was a huge search.
Never been found.
And there's been a series of physicists
around North America and the world
that have disappeared in the rural areas
under very, very unusual circumstances.
How bizarre.
Also, physicians are another one
that have either disappeared
and have been later found under
highly unusual circumstances, dead,
or they were never found.
Of those who are not found,
is it possible that they're being used
for their expertise somewhere?
I mean, if you're gonna grab a bunch of physicists,
to me logic would tell you,
you, this group, whoever's taking them
needs a physicist.
So I've had, again, hundreds of emails about this.
And there's a lot of theories that have been thrown at me,
and one of 'em is something, someone's
trying to eliminate the intellect of the world.
How would they know?
There's the million dollar question.
Now Krost was not just a physicist,
he taught at one of the top universities in Germany.
So, he was a real intellect.
And there's been several of those kind.
There was a guy that was a physicist
for a Canadian research firm,
way up in the middle of nowhere,
he disappeared in the middle of the night.
And there are these stories
that seem to
all center around intellect, which are discomforting.
Yet, when they come across children with deficiencies,
they seem to leave them alone.
Yes, it would appear that the ones
that couldn't talk about it,
are the ones that make it.
But occasionally, even they don't make it back,
and that's the perplexing scenario.
And I'm talkin', again another part of that scenario
is that the victims are found later
in areas that sometimes had been searched hundreds of times.
And all of a sudden they are there!
And sometimes it's just a body.
You mentioned the alien possibilities,
yet minimal reports of craft being seen.
What if these higher intelligent beings
have the capability
of teleporting an individual
almost with an instant, from above,
so high up you don't see the craft.
You don't see the lights.
Yet, they beam in on David Paulides,
George Noory, they see them walking there in the forest,
then just (snaps fingers) they're up, they're gone.
Maybe?
And they're taking people of certain educational standards.
Well George, if they could do that,
this show'd go to number one, I'm tellin' ya. (laughs)
We'd be gone!
We'll come back from a break and you'll be gone, right?
But it's frightening!
If that scenario could play out
that's very frightening because again,
as I've been told many times,
that's the scenario in many people's minds
that's being worked out.
Can you imagine the horror for a moment
of all these people who have disappeared
of what they actually witnessed?
Before this disappearance, before they died.
It's got to be frightening.
Assuming they saw it coming.
Well, one of the things I talk about,
especially the young kids,
is that right after they've been,
search and rescue has found them in many instances,
there's a cameraman nearby.
And one of the disturbing things that I see in all of 'em
is that their eyes are like
the size of dishpans in their head.
In shock?
Shock and just staring out at you like, wow!
Do they talk to you?
The search and rescue people
don't ever report any conversation.
And I don't know if that's just
their professional etiquette or not.
I mean I would probably come back and say
oh, you're not gonna believe this,
I saw this group of people like grab me
and I got away, or something!
You had mentioned earlier that another possibility
might have been beings, human or otherwise,
in caverns and caves and things like that.
Are there a lot of caverns and caves in these locations?
I think there are,
I've been told that especially Yosemite
and Sequoia National Park there's
hundreds and hundreds of them.
Again, I've been told this and I don't know this for sure,
that there's a cave system that runs park to park.
So, in that area for sure.
There's a story I wrote about where a small boy,
three years-old, it was up near Mount Shasta,
and he was camping with his grandma and grandpa
and parents, he disappeared.
And he was gone for about 12 hours.
The boy came back and told a story
that he was held in an underground cavern
and there were robots in the room.
and that somebody that looked like grandma
was talking care of him.
And he said that he thought it was grandma
until he saw sparks comin' out of her head.
And that he had seen old-time guns and things
on a ledge around the outside of the cavern.
So, searchers search this area
for hours and hours and hours,
walkin' the same trail in and out, in and out.
And what do they do?
They walk the same trail again
and he's just sittin' in a bush right next to the trail.
It's one of those strange instances where
the boy actually came back and told a story.
How far back were you able to trace the disappearance,
as to what time period?
1752.
Wow, so it goes back that far?
Yeah.
At least.
Native American legend?
There's a,
well so, originally we started in the United States,
went to Canada and again
the more notoriety your show is givin' these stories
and other media outlets,
people from around the world have said
hey, we heard that profile
and we wanna send you this story.
And so now we have eight countries involved
and I'm guessing, George, there's many more.
But yeah, eight countries,
1600 people and I always talk to Native Americans.
I'm one of these people,
I spent 50% of my life a few years ago
on the Hoopa Reservation in Northern California.
And I always listen to 'em.
I learned to pay attention to what they say.
This is, David, and I've gotta tell you,
in my career as a broadcaster,
the most riveting,
scary story I have ever heard.
Scary because we can't control it.
Riveting because we don't know what it is.
I've heard that many times.
But I appreciate hearing it from you and the,
almost those exact words were told to me by someone
and said this is why the government's doing
everything they can to block you
from getting the information.
What does David Paulides do next in this area?
I think one of the things is I have to keep an open mind
and the people I work with have to keep that open mind.
And you brought up the point about
well, how do we know it's not happening in urban areas?
And we're lookin' at that really hard right now.
And I think it's a good point
because I think if we restrict ourselves
to that rural environment,
that we may be missing a big piece of the puzzle.
Absolutely, because if you find out it's being,
it's happening in urban areas, too,
then there are other scenarios involved.
Exactly.
You can rule out animals, I would think,
and things like that.
One of the reasons that we restricted ourselves
to the rural areas from the beginning
is because that's where the information came from.
I think that also restricting it to the rural areas
keeps a lot of the critics away that are saying
well, this is just a normal human abduction and no big deal.
And so, unless we can keep to this path of this profile,
I'd be reluctant to step too deep into that muck
just because people and others would
refute it on its faces saying
well, it's a human abduction.
So, I gotta be careful about how that plays out.
We've had a lot of stories of human abductions
by extra-terrestrials where these people
are experimented on, they're probed,
they're tested, they may have had hybrid babies.
But they always seem to be dropped back off,
given back to the planet.
But what if there's a group of extra-terrestrials out there
that keep them for whatever reason?
That is scary.
Boy, especially if you were a parent
and your two year-old disappeared
when they were right in your midst.
And you never saw 'em again and you knew
that your son or your daughter would never leave you,
which I hear many times,
and your son or daughter couldn't get outside
that two mile search perimeter,
and they knew they weren't there.
So, where are they?
I've said many times, I don't know
of a more horrific scenario as a parent
than not knowing what happened and where your child--
It's the worst.
It would be the worst.
David, thanks for bein' on Beyond Belief, appreciate it.
Thank you, George.
No question, in my 46 years of broadcasting,
it is the scariest story
I have ever attempted to cover.
David Paulides, thank God, is out there doing this research.
Maybe one day we'll get the answer
to what's happening to all these people.
Thanks for watching Beyond Belief.
(mystical orchestral music)